docs: add a how-to for library users (#242)
canonical/charmlibs: .docs/how-to/manage-libraries.md

(how-to-manage-charm-libraries)=
# How to manage charm libraries

> This guide will walk you through the best practices for using `charmlibs` packages, and other packages from PyPI.

Author: I'll keep it as is, just to make it clearer that you'll find some useful advice here if you're installing a non-`charmlibs` PyPI package too.

This is a shorthand for something like `>=X.Y,<X+1`.
That is, greater than or equal to the version you need, but less than the next major version.
This protects your charm from breaking changes.

On top of this, you should lock your charm's dependencies, commit the lockfile to version control, and use a charm plugin that installs dependencies from the lockfile when packing.
We recommend the [uv plugin](https://canonical-charmcraft.readthedocs-hosted.com/en/stable/reference/plugins/uv_plugin/).

Many packages on PyPI follow semantic versioning, some more closely that others.
If you use locked dependencies, you won't need to worry too much about this, as it will be very clear which version bumps cause breakages -- assuming you have good test coverage!

(manage-git-dependencies)=
## Manage git dependencies

You’ll need to include `git` in your charm’s build dependencies:

```yaml
parts:
  charm:
    build-packages: [git]
```

Then you can specify the dependency in your requirements:

```
charmlibs-pathops @ git+https://github.com/canonical/charmtech-charmlibs@main#subdirectory=pathops

> ```

Reviewer: Looks like this needs updating to use the latest repo URL (no `charmtech-`). Since this uses `pathops` as an example, how about changing the text to something like

````suggestion
Then you can specify the dependency in your requirements. For example:

```
charmlibs-pathops @ git+https://github.com/canonical/charmtech-charmlibs@main#subdirectory=pathops
```
````

You can specify any branch, tag, or commit after the `@`. If you leave it off, it will default to `@main`. You can’t specify a version range. This can make dependency resolution problematic for users, especially if your library is depended on by other charm libraries. Tools that scan versions for security vulnerabilities may also struggle with such dependencies.

> If your package is in a subdirectory of your repository, for example in a monorepo (like the example above), or when developing libraries alongside charms, you'll need to specify the subdirectory. If your library has a dedicated repository, leave off the subdirectory and it will default to the repository root.

Reviewer: A few suggestions to make this user-focused

```suggestion
If the package is in a subdirectory of a repository, as in the `charmlibs-pathops` example, you'll need to specify the subdirectory. If the library has a dedicated repository, leave off the subdirectory and the dependency will default to the repository root.
```

In `pyproject.toml`, quote the entire string starting `charmlibs-pathops @ git+...` in your dependencies list. Alternatively, use `uv add git+...` to have `uv` add `charmlibs-pathops` to your dependencies list and the `git` reference to `tool.uv.sources`. For `poetry` see [the `poetry` docs](https://python-poetry.org/docs/dependency-specification/#git-dependencies).

> The exact commit being referenced should be captured in `uv.lock` and committed to the charm repository, so that rebuilding a given charm release is consistent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The exact commit being referenced should be captured in `uv.lock` and committed to your charm's repository, so that rebuilding a given charm release is consistent.
```

(manage-charmhub-libraries)=
## Manage legacy Charmhub-hosted libraries

To use Charmhub-hosted libraries, list them in the {ref}`charm-libs section of charmcraft.yaml <charmcraft:charmcraft-yaml-key-charm-libs>` and then run {doc}`charmcraft fetch-libs <charmcraft:reference/commands/fetch-libs>`. This will download the libraries and place them in `lib/<charm>/v<api-version>/<lib-name>.py`. These files should be committed into your charm's version control.

Charm libraries all have an API version and a patch version, broadly equivalent to the major and minor version in semantic versioning. If a library is specified by API version only then rerunning `charmcraft fetch-libs` will update the library if a newer patch release is available.

The `lib` directory is added to the `PYTHONPATH` by the charm's `dispatch` script, so these libraries are imported in charm code as `$charm.v$api-version.$lib-name`.

For example, you might add this to your `charmcraft.yaml`:

```yaml
charm-libs:
  - lib: operator_libs_linux.snap
    version: "2"
```

And then in your charm code, you would write `from operator_libs_linux.v2 import snap`.

> ```{note}

Author: ````suggestion
```{warning}
````

> But don't do this, add `charmlibs-snap` to your dependencies and write `from charmlibs import snap` instead!

Author: Good call, I'll convert this to a warning as well.

```

It is recommended that Charmhub-hosted libraries have no additional dependencies, but some do. It's possible that a Charmhub-hosted library might depend on a regular Python package, or it might even depend on another Charmhub-hosted library.

If a library depends on a Python package, the package should be listed in the `PYDEPS` variable in the library itself. You will need to manually add these dependencies to your charm's Python dependencies. For example, if the `snap` library depended on a Python package named `foo` (it doesn't), it might have `PYDEPS = ['foo']`, and you would add `foo` to your dependencies in `pyproject.toml`.

> If a library depends on another Charmhub-hosted library, the dependency should be clearly specified in the library's documentation. In this case, you will need to add this additional Charmhub-hosted library to your charm's `charmcraft.yaml` and  run `charmcraft fetch-libs`. For example, if the `snap` library depended on a Charmhub-hosted library `foo.v0.bar`, then you would update your `charmcraft.yaml` to look like this:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a library depends on another Charmhub-hosted library, the dependency should be clearly specified in the library's documentation. In this case, you will need to add this additional Charmhub-hosted library to your charm's `charmcraft.yaml` and  run `charmcraft fetch-libs`. For example, if the `snap` library depended on a Charmhub-hosted library `foo.v0.bar`, then you would update `charmcraft.yaml` to look like this:
```
